Welcome back.
Let's finally learn about yes six modules javascript needed a way to support modules because it's now
a serious language.
It's not just for the browser you can use javascript anywhere on the server on mobile on desktop on
IO T devices and as applications grow larger and larger as we've learned we need modules.
And luckily we don't have to worry about common Jesus M.D. or UMD anymore.
I mean you'll still see common G.S. in node programs but we're gonna have native iOS 6 modules A.J.
as soon as well.
So how is this going to look just like this.
We have a native keyword now called import that imports a module from what profile we want and a nother
module from another JavaScript file that we want.
And anytime we want to export something.
Well we do export and whatever we want to export how nice and simple is that.
Let's turn our code that was originally just a simple module pattern into using iOS 6 modules.
Well all we're going to do is copy our fight function and this fight function well we don't need jump
function.
It's not doing anything or let's keep it there just for fun.
I'm going to copy the fight function and we're in yes sixth line now so let's just change this to const
you won't do anything for now but it just looks nicer and I also want Harry involved in more variables
to come with me.
So I'm going to grab those and put them up here.
We'll change these two constants as well.
Again that doesn't really affect imports or export is just we're in modern javascript land now.
So might as well use the modern features.
Now here's the thing.
All we need to do to export this and make this available is to.
Well first of all let's remove the imports because we're not importing anything in here.
All I need to do to say hey I want you to export a function or a variable from this file is to add the
export keyword so that if I do export function fight I'm going to have access to it and everything that
I don't export like Harry and Voldemort or maybe I don't want to export jump because this is a private
function.
Well then nobody else is going to get access to it except for whoever is working on this file.
So let's remove our module pattern and see how this works in the browser.
I'm going to go down here.
Let's minimize our scripts that we aren't using.
And now with our last script
I'm going to add a new file or we can just do it here we're going to import the fight function from
the well what should we import it from we import it from script file right over here
and this is called a named export.
I can do as many exports as I want if I wanted to export jump for example I can just say export here
and I can import it just like that.
But you need these curly brackets.
Another way to export it is to actually do something called a default export and a default export is
while you just add a default in here export default function.
And now this is the default function or default item that gets imported.
So you don't need the brackets anymore because it should only be one.
All right.
So we imported this.
And just to see that we have this working I'm going to say in here fight and then we'll fight Ron against
Hedwig.
Now let's see if this actually works.
I'm going to save this and refresh and I get an error.
Mm hmm unexpected identifier export it doesn't recognize our import and export statements.
But why.
I mean I thought you told me that yes six modules are available right.
Well yes there are but there's one other trick.
Well actually two other tricks to make this work.
One is that you now have to define this script as a type module and again this is a new feature where
you have to tell it hey what we're doing here.
This is a module.
It's not a regular script like we've had in in the past.
This is a CSX module and same thing here anytime we use import and export we have to tell it hey this
is a module.
So now if I save this and refresh
it looks like I'm still getting an error now because it's not just a regular script that the browser
reads.
It's a module.
We actually need to serve it from a server.
So I'm going to use a tool called Life server and you can do this with any type of a shitty server.
This is the one that I like and all you do is say live server from the project that you're working with.
And as long as you have an index not a small file they'll open it for you.
All right.
So we have our browser but I see that Oh I failed to resolve module specified I have to tell it where
the script file is.
So it's script dot James that we're looking for.
If I save this and go back hey look at that Hedwig wins we're able to use the fight function and export
it from one module to another.
If I keep refreshing here every once in a while hopefully Ron wins as well.
There you go.
Ron is not very good at this because while he's only got three letters but every once in a while Ron
wins as well.
Awesome.
And there you have it.
How much simpler was that instead of worrying about if he's module patents common G.S. and M.D. and
making sure that things worked across the browser and things worked as a third package on NPM.
We now have simple import and export statements that we can use.
By the way if for example we had something like this where we had export function and an export default
function well we can simply import it this way where we have fight and then because the other one is
not a default export we just do jump like this so that if we console that log jump and jump start on
doing anything right now so let's just console log jump here and save both of these and go back to our
file and look at that Hedwig wins and jump is working but because we're now using modules.
Well I can't really use it in here if I do jump.
No that's a different module you have to explicitly tell me that you're importing something if you want
to use it.
So now we're not polluting the global namespace.
If I go to window I'm not gonna see jump or fight or anything like that on there.
How awesome is that.
Now import and export makes things really really easy and I'll link to ways that you can import different
functionality from other modules but like you see over here there's just a few ways of doing it differently
that you can learn on your own.
It's not very difficult.
The idea behind it is to keep everything simple so let's finish off this section with our conclusion.
What we have now with modules.